First of all, let's understand what side effects are
and we can best see this in the auth service. Side effects are basically parts in your code where you
run some logic that of course is important for your application,
otherwise you wouldn't do it
but that's not so important for the immediate update of the current state.
So for example here, this HTTP request,
of course the result of that matters,
it decides whether we did successfully create a new user or not
but for this process, where we start the sign-up process, this is not important.
So we could basically split this up into two actions -
start sign-up and sign-up
success for example or even three actions,
start sign-up, sign-up success and sign-up error.
So the start sign-up action would then be an action where the response here doesn't matter and this
is just a side effect for us.
The sign-up success action also is one where the response matters but where we don't want to deal with
sending this,
so the request is kind of in-between the different actions,
each action only cares about a part of that this request while it's on its way, it's not really something
our state cares about or our store cares about,
we don't want to save that, it's just some side effect code we run. The same for local storage,
this actually does not happen asynchronously. Accessing local storage happens synchronicity so it's done
instantly and we could therefore do it in the reducer, only async code is forbidden in there and it will
break it.
This, adding this line to a reducer wouldn't break the reducer but it would be considered a bad practice
because again, accessing the local storage and writing something to it or getting something from there
is really just a side effect of the application.
Of course the result of that, especially when you're getting data, matters to us
but the process itself is not that interesting to us.
So things like that are side effects and whilst we could manage some of them, like local storage in the
reducer, others like async coordinate or HTTP requests can't even be managed there and either of
the two things would be a bad practice, even if we could technically handle HTTP requests in there.
That's why there is a separate package, also provided and maintained by the NgRx team that helps us
with dealing such side effects while still staying in this NgRx world
and this package now has to be installed of course. We do that with npm install --save and the
name is @ngrx/effects.
@ngrx/effects is a package that gives us tools for elegantly working with side effects between
actions which we dispatch and receive so that we can keep our reducers clean and still have a good
place for managing these side effects,
now let's restart ng serve
after installing this. It is important to me here to point out that of course you could also go for an
approach where you still have a service for sending the HTTP request and for working with local storage
and then you have your reducer and NgRx for managing your current state,
so basically the setup we already have here.
You could also keep that and as so much else with NgRx, it comes down to your personal preference and
likings
but here I think it is good, especially for learning about NgRx
if we move as much as possible into the NgRx world and therefore if we use @ngrx/effects for managing
our HTTP requests and local storage access.